docs/DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md, before:

# Deployment Guide

This guide provides step-by-step instructions for deploying the infrastructure and API for this project using GitHub Actions, Terraform, and supporting scripts.

---

## Prerequisites

- Azure CLI installed, authenticated and context set to desired Azure Subscription
- Sufficient permissions to create resources in your Azure subscription
- GitHub repository admin access

---

## 1. Set Up GitHub OIDC and Terraform State Storage

A setup script is provided to automate the creation of:
- Azure resources for GitHub OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication
- A storage account for Terraform state

**Run the setup script:**

```bash
bash scripts/setup-github-actions-oidc.sh
```

This script will:
- Create an Azure User-Assigned Managed Identity and federated credentials for GitHub Actions OIDC
- Create a storage account for Terraform state
- Output values needed for GitHub secrets and environment variables

---

## 2. Create GitHub Environment

In your GitHub repository:
1. Go to **Settings > Environments**
2. Click **New environment** and name it (e.g., `development` or `production`)
3. Save the environment

---

## 3. Add GitHub Secrets and Variables

Add the following secrets and variables to your environment (as output by the setup script):

### Required Secrets
- `AZURE_CLIENT_ID` – From setup script output
- `AZURE_TENANT_ID` – From setup script output
- `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` – Your Azure subscription ID

### Required Variables
- `APIM_SUBNET_PREFIX` – CIDR for APIM subnet (e.g., `10.46.8.0/26`)
- `APP_SERVICE_SUBNET_PREFIX` – CIDR for App Service subnet (e.g., `10.46.8.64/26`)
- `PRIVATEENDPOINT_SUBNET_PREFIX` – CIDR for Private Endpoint subnet (e.g., `10.46.8.128/26`)
- `RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME` – Name of the Azure Resource Group to host the Azure Resources (e.g., `a9cee3-test-networking`)
- `TF_STATE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT` – Name of the storage account for Terraform state
- `VNET_NAME` – Name of the Azure vNet
---

## 4. Deploy Infrastructure with GitHub Actions

Once secrets and variables are set, push changes to your repository. The GitHub Actions workflow will:
- Authenticate to Azure using OIDC
- Initialize and apply Terraform to provision infrastructure
- Deploy the API to Azure App Service

Monitor workflow runs under the **Actions** tab in your repository.

---

## 5. Troubleshooting

- Ensure all secrets and variables are correctly set
- Check workflow logs for errors
- Verify Azure resources are created as expected

---

For more details, see the `scripts/README.md` and `docs/GITHUB_ACTIONS_SETUP.md` files.

Commit message:

feat: update deployment guide and scripts for managed identity setup; remove unnecessary role assignment options

docs/DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md, after:

# Deployment Guide

This guide provides step-by-step instructions for deploying the infrastructure and API for this project using GitHub Actions, Terraform, and supporting scripts.

---

## Prerequisites

- Azure CLI installed, authenticated and context set to desired Azure Subscription
- Sufficient permissions to create resources in your Azure subscription
- GitHub repository admin access

---

## 1. Set Up GitHub OIDC and Terraform State Storage

A setup script is provided to automate the creation of:
- Azure resources for GitHub OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication
- A storage account for Terraform state

**Run the setup script:**

```bash
bash scripts/setup-github-actions-oidc.sh
```

This script will:
- Create an Azure User-Assigned Managed Identity and federated credentials for GitHub Actions OIDC
- Create a storage account for Terraform state
- Output values needed for GitHub secrets and environment variables

---
## 2. Add Managed Identity to Project Entra Contributor Group

After running the setup script, a project lead must manually add the newly created Azure User-Assigned Managed Identity to the Entra group that assigns the Contributor role for this project. This step is required to ensure the GitHub Actions workflow has sufficient permissions to deploy resources.

**Manual action required:**
- Identify the managed identity name from the setup script output
- In the Entra admin portal, add this managed identity to the appropriate group that grants Contributor access
- Confirm the group assignment is complete before proceeding

---
## 3. Create GitHub Environment

In your GitHub repository:
1. Go to **Settings > Environments**
2. Click **New environment** and name it (e.g., `development` or `production`)
3. Save the environment

---

## 4. Add GitHub Secrets and Variables

Add the following secrets and variables to your environment (as output by the setup script):

### Required Secrets
- `AZURE_CLIENT_ID` – From setup script output
- `AZURE_TENANT_ID` – From setup script output
- `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` – Your Azure subscription ID

### Required Variables
- `APIM_SUBNET_PREFIX` – CIDR for APIM subnet (e.g., `10.46.8.0/26`)
- `APP_SERVICE_SUBNET_PREFIX` – CIDR for App Service subnet (e.g., `10.46.8.64/26`)
- `PRIVATEENDPOINT_SUBNET_PREFIX` – CIDR for Private Endpoint subnet (e.g., `10.46.8.128/26`)
- `RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME` – Name of the Azure Resource Group to host the Azure Resources (e.g., `a9cee3-test-networking`)
- `TFSTATE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT` – Name of the storage account for Terraform state
- `VNET_NAME` – Name of the Azure vNet
---

## 5. Deploy Infrastructure with GitHub Actions

Once secrets and variables are set, push changes to your repository. The GitHub Actions workflow will:
- Authenticate to Azure using OIDC
- Initialize and apply Terraform to provision infrastructure
- Deploy the API to Azure App Service

Monitor workflow runs under the **Actions** tab in your repository.

---

## 6. Troubleshooting

- Ensure all secrets and variables are correctly set
- Check workflow logs for errors
- Verify Azure resources are created as expected

---

For more details, see the `scripts/README.md` and `docs/GITHUB_ACTIONS_SETUP.md` files.
